Chapter 1
===========

It was dark when they awoke. The only light came from faint blue traces on the walls, and on the strange pedestals they lay in. They sat up at the same time, knowing of the other's presence by sound more than sight.

Zelda woke knowing two things foremost. Her name, and that she was naked. Her brain rapidly started to fill in more observations as she levered herself off the pedestal and stood. There was a pedestal a short distance away, and she felt inexplicably drawn to it.

There was only one thought foremost in Link's mind. "Damn it, why am I in a boy's body?"

+++++

By the time the door to the antechamber opened, their eyes had adjusted to the dimness. Zelda ventured in first, finding several crates stacked haphazardly, and a couple of chests containing clothes. There were two sets of shorts and sleeveless shirts that hadn't rotted away, both somewhat threadbare, but sturdy enough, though the shorts were _rather_ short... and fraying around the legs. There were also a pair of well-preserved magical adventurer's harnesses, of a kind Zelda knew were common in times past. They consisted of a belt and cross-body bandolier, with a six-slot quiver and places to hang a weapon and shield, as well as several enchanted belt-pouches. The leather, being magic, was still nicely supple. _Wait, how do I know all that?_

They dressed in silence, as Zelda pondered her inexplicable knowledge, and the gaps in her memories. Once they were properly clothed, and the Sheikah slate -- as the voice which had woken her had called it -- she'd taken from the pedestal clipped securely to her waist, Zelda turned to Link.

"I believe it's time we introduced ourselves. My name is Zelda, and I can't seem to remember anything else."

Link smiled bashfully. "Link, and same." She perked up at hearing her own voice; it wasn't nearly as deep or masculine as she'd feared, instead coming out as a soft, androgynous alto only a touch lower than Zelda's. "I do know that I'm not a boy, though, even though my body looks like one." She blushed upon realizing what she'd blurted, looking bashfully at her feet.

A look of surprise flitted across Zelda's face before she nodded resolutely. "Thank you for telling me. We'll just have to see what can be done for you, then, yes?"

Link looked up, smiling again. "Maybe we should start with opening that door over there?" She pointed at a doorway sealed by interlinked bars of the same odd material which formed the rest of the room. There was another pedestal next to it, and they ambled over to it.

Zelda started as a phantom voice -- the same which had woke her earlier -- told her to touch the slate to the pedestal. "I-is someone there?" She called out, even as she followed the voice's directions.

The large doorway suddenly began to open, the bars retracting into the walls and ceiling, flooding the room with distant daylight. After the blue dimness, it was momentarily blinding. Both girls looked around, startled, as two voices spoke in unison. "Link, Zelda, you are the light. Our light, that must shine on Hyrule once again. Now go..."

"Hello?" Zelda called out again.

"I don't think they're physically here, Zelda," Link said. "Which is quite strange, really."

Zelda nodded. "It truly is. And what's a Hyrule?"

"Maybe we'll find out at the end of those stairs?" Link suggested.

They made their way up the tunnel, helping each other over a section where the ceiling had collapsed and destroyed the stairs. They could see a volcano through the tunnel's mouth, lava running down its sides glowing bright enough to see even this far away, through the haze of what must be considerable distance. Reaching the entrance, Zelda couldn't help herself and began running, only stopping as she reached the edge of a cliff which overlooked... well, from here she could see what felt like the whole world spread out before her.

"It's beautiful," she whispered as Link joined her.

"It really is," Link agreed. "It's so much to take in!"

"A whole world, just waiting for us to explore it..." Zelda trailed off as the voices spoke again.

"Head for the point marked on the Sheikah slate," they instructed.

Zelda took the slate from her belt as Link peered over her shoulder. There was a bunch of blue, in lines suggesting units and boundaries of some sort, and a blinking yellow dot. There was also a brighter blue icon of some sort, and a yellow arrow with a fainter yellow cone emanating from its tip. The arrow and cone turned as Zelda did. Finally, right at the top, they noticed text reading "map" and Zelda snorted at herself.

"Is this tracking where we are in real time?" Link asked. "How helpful of it!"

"Yes," Zelda agreed, "but I do wish it showed the actual terrain. We might be led right off a cliff if we aren't careful."

Neither gave the slightest thought to splitting up.

Zelda turned until the arrow pointed at the dot, then looked up. "Well," she said dryly. "There's the cliff already."

Link giggled. "Maybe that old man over there can help." She pointed halfway down a trail they'd missed, where a rocky overhang sheltered a campfire with a hooded old man settled next to it. Further down the path a ruined building of once-stately grandeur perched atop a hill, facing a thickly-wooded hollow across the path. "Maybe he'll have something to eat, too; I'm hungry. Ooh, mushrooms!" She darted over and stuffed them in a pouch.

"We probably haven't eaten anything in over a hundred years," Zelda said. "That path looks a bit steep," she added, picking up a sturdy branch she found lying beneath a tree.

Link picked up another branch -- perhaps there had been a storm recently? -- and, impromptu walking sticks in hand, they set off together down the path.

+++++

"Well met, strangers!" The old man greeted them as they drew near. "It's rather unusual to see another soul in these parts."

Something tickled at the back of Zelda's mind, but just wouldn't come into focus. "Who... are you?" She asked hesitantly.

"Me?" The old man replied. "I'll spare you my life story. I'm just an old fool who has lived here, alone, for quite some time now." He sighed, and continued in a more jovial tone. "What brings bright-eyed youngsters such as yourselves to a place like this?"

"About that," Link said shyly, "where are we?"

"Answering a question with a question?" The old man chuckled. "That is fair enough. As I cannot imagine our meeting to be a simple coincidence..." He trailed off, and Zelda's eyes narrowed suspiciously at his words.

"I shall tell you," he continued. "This is the Great Plateau. According to legend, this is the birthplace of the entire kingdom of Hyrule." He stood, gesturing to the stately old ruins they'd noticed from the cliff. "That temple there... Long ago, it was the site of many sacred ceremonies. Ever since the decline of the kingdom 100 years ago, it has sat abandoned, in a state of decay." He sighed again. "Yet another forgotten entity. A mere ghost of its former self..." He trailed off, and Zelda had the notion that he was no longer speaking of the temple.

The old man shook himself from his reverie. "I shall be here for some time," he eventually said. "Please let me know if I may be of service." He returned to his seat by the fire, poking at it idly with his walking stick.

Zelda turned, realizing that Link was no longer next to her. She found her a few feet away, picking apples from a nearby apple tree.

"A snack for the road," Link said, tossing her one. The others went in her pouch with the mushrooms.

Continuing down the path, they passed another campfire, this one unlit, and a woodsman's axe wedged in a stump. Another apple tree was nearby, and Link stopped to gather more apples. Zelda turned, realizing that there was a cliff dropping off behind her into a pond. Something glinting in the sunlight caught her eye. Squinting, she saw what looked like a sword stabbed into the earth atop a rocky islet in the middle of the pond.

"There's a monster down the way," Link murmured behind her, startling her.

"Link! Goodness, don't _do_ that!" 

"Sorry," Link grinned sheepishly. "I didn't want the monster to know that I know that it's there. It's off to one side of the path," she gestured, "crouched in a bush and holding a stick."

"Hmm," Zelda pondered. "I don't suppose we could go around. Well, there appears to be a sword of some kind on that rock in the pond. Maybe one of us can use that, and the other can borrow this axe. Wait here."

Without another word, she made a running leap into the pond, returning a short time later with a rusty broadsword on her back as she clambered back up the cliff.

"That was refreshing!" She grinned, lifting the hem of her shirt and wringing it out. "And I think some fish got sucked into one of my pouches... what?" She asked, noticing Link's flushed, shocked face.

"Y-your shirt," Link stammered. "It's, um... white. And wet."

Zelda froze, blushing herself, before shrugging and continuing. "Oh. Well, we're both girls here, are we not?"

Link beamed at that.

They sat for a bit, each eating an apple and allowing Zelda time to dry off as they made a tentative plan to deal with the monster laying in wait.

"It's not all that big," Link said, "maybe half our height, but it was rather well-muscled for all that. I could see definition from here."

"Let's hope there's only the one, then," Zelda said, knowing in her heart there were almost certainly more.

They finished their apples and crept stealthily up the path, Link making a note to backtrack and collect some eggs and acorns she'd spotted. When they finally had a chance to stop for the night, if she could find some flint, they could cook some proper food over a fire.

The monster heard them coming despite their efforts, and charged at them. Link and Zelda split up to flank it, Zelda instinctively flicking the sword's tip to parry the monster's wild swings. This left an opening for Link to strike with the axe, sending the monster flying a few feet away before it disappeared in a puff of evil-looking purple smoke.

"That was... odd," Link said. 

"Perhaps that's what separates monsters from normal creatures," Zelda replied, sheathing her sword.

"Perhaps," Link said. "Maybe I'd better hold on to this axe for now."

They continued on, Link darting off every so often to forage, until they came to an open area with the shattered remains of a fountain. Another monster was off to the side, up some stone stairs, but it didn't seem to have noticed them yet. A couple more were down the other side, among the trees. Behind the monster on the stairs, clearly visible now that they were closer, were a number of... statues?

"What _are_ those?" Link whispered, giving voice to Zelda's own musing.

"I don't know," she replied, "but it seems as if they're why that temple is in ruins."

"Well, as long as they don't wake up," Link said. "I like our chances against only _one_ monster at a time better. Maybe there's something useful in the ruins. I wouldn't say no to a scrap of metal I could use as a cook-pot. Or a spare bit of flint, maybe."

Zelda agreed, and they crept slowly closer to the lone monster on the steps. They'd learned from their last attempt, and managed to circle around behind it, past one of the strange not-statues, before Link dealt it a decisive blow. This one had a crude wooden club, which Link took. She darted back up the path to return the axe, rejoining Zelda as she examined the odd not-statue.

"There's something strangely familiar about them," she murmured as Link approached. "They appear to be automatons," she continued, holding up a screw made of a strange, not-metallic material. "This seems to be the same material as the slate. Curiouser and curiouser..."

"Everything is curious when you don't remember anything," Link said. "Come on. Essentials first, then we can work on finding some answers."

+++++

They continued up the stairs, exploring the out-buildings as they went. In one, they found a chest full of more clothes, most rotted away. There were a couple of pairs of sturdy trousers, though, which were in better condition than their current clothes, as well as a few pairs of sturdy boots, which were much better suited to clambering around in ruins than going barefoot as they had been.

In another out-building, they discovered a more complete instance of the odd not-statues. It had many segmented tentacles, made of the same strange not-metal.

"Creepy," Link shuddered.

"Quite," Zelda said. "I do wish I could remember, though! Every new discovery brings with it more questions, and I'm _certain_ I once had the answers! Some of them, at least," she amended, "but I can't keep referring to them by what they aren't!"

+++++

Another monster surprised them at the entrance to the main temple, though it was swiftly dispatched. Once inside the temple, though, an overwhelming sense of peace permeated the air. Link found a bow in one corner, but Zelda's attention was commanded by the enormous statue at the far end of the cavernous interior. She drifted towards it, as if in a dream, barely registering the gaps in the ceiling, nor that one entire wall of the temple was completely missing.

The statue was ancient, far older than the temple itself, and was surrounded by smaller but equally-old statues at its feet.

"Hylia," Zelda murmured as Link caught up. "The goddess Hylia."

"You remembered something?" Link asked.

"Not much," Zelda said. "Faint echoes of something learned long ago, maybe... Oh!"

As Zelda had turned to face Link, she caught sight of the view out the temple's front doorway. Framed neatly, she saw the spired silhouette of a great castle, and something inside her cried out for it. She placed a hand to her mouth, stifling a whimper.

"Zelda?" Link asked, brushing her arm. "Are you alright?"

"I... don't know," she replied faintly. "Echoes of memories are everywhere, yet I can't grasp them..."

"Well, let's get moving again," Link said. "Maybe the more we discover, the more will shake loose." She led the way out the side of the temple, through the missing wall and onto a brick-floored patio running the length of the temple. The remains of a low wall ran along the outside, and she moved to lean against it.

A distant roar shook the ruins and startled Link from her slouch.

"What in Din's name was that?" Zelda gasped, rushing to peer over the wall.

Link joined her. "There! Whatever it is, it's _huge._"

In the distance, at the base of the hill where the temple stood, an enormous creature paced. It had the body of the biggest horse either of them had ever seen, the head of a lion wreathed in a white mane, and connecting them the body of an absolute mountain of a man. Grey and white stripes patterned its body, and two vicious horns surmounted its forehead. On its back were a metal bow as big as it was, and just as cruel-looking; and a spiked metal club that was even bigger. As it paced, every so often it roared a challenge to the air. 

"Marking its territory," Zelda surmised, eyes wide.

"Are we _in_ its territory?" Link squeaked.

"Din, I hope not," Zelda shuddered. "Let's go back the other way. That marker on the slate isn't in that _thing's_ direction, and right now that's good enough for me."

+++++

Back by the fountain, Link was startled by a pair of blue blobs with bulging yellow eyes as she was gathering some herbs she'd spotted. They were quite comical, even as they bounced to attack, and left behind splatters of translucent blue goo and --

"Arrows!" Link gushed, bouncing on her toes. "I saw a boar back in the woods. Might be able to hunt it down for dinner." She slipped the arrows into her quiver, leading the way as the two monsters they'd spotted in the woods earlier came into sight.

Zelda managed to sneak up on the first one and quietly dispatch it before the other noticed, and Link did the same on the other, each taking one of the clubs the monsters had been carrying.

"These pouches really are something," Link said as the club disappeared into a pouch many times smaller than it.

"Aren't they?" Zelda agreed. "I'd like to learn how they're made. Oh, I _wish_ I had a notebook!"

They ambled through the woods a bit further before they came upon the remains of a cook-fire next to a crumbled stone archway. There was still a cook-pot, even, and a couple of torches. Zelda found a bow of her own leaning against the arch, and several bundles of arrows. When Link checked, the fire was long cold; the site seemed as if it had been abandoned months ago, if not years.

"Still no flint, though," Link grumbled.

They continued down the path, startling a pack of wild boars. Link managed to fell one with a well-placed arrow, and, finding a small hunting knife already in a pouch, swiftly carved up the beast -- only distantly wondering how she knew how do all of this. The other boars, Zelda noticed, had run right into an encampment of monsters, which she pointed out to Link.

"I see three of them," she added.

"Hmm," Link replied. "Should we take them out, or swing around them? I don't like the thought of leaving them around if we end up camping close by tonight."

"I'm more worried that they'll chase one of those boars right to us," Zelda said.

"Make for that great big stump, then," Link said. "We'll hit them first."

Zelda nodded. "There's an archer on a tower. Hopefully it uses up all its arrows on the boars."

They crept forward quietly. Zelda shot one of the monsters, drawing it away from its fellows and leading it deeper into the woods where it was swiftly defeated. They moved to the other side of the camp, repeating the tactic.

This one carried a shield, which Link hung on her back as they moved into firing range for the last monster, the archer. It perched on a crude tower roughly 8 feet high, oblivious to their presence. With a nod to each other, they leaned around separate sides of a tree and began pelting it with arrows until it fell from its perch. They moved to melee to finish it off, taking its arrows to replenish their own before looting the camp for supplies.

When the tunnel-vision of battle finally lifted, they realized they were near the edge of the plateau, and wandered to the edge to peer over.

"That's a _long_ way down," Link remarked, quickly backing away from the edge. "And that ledge doesn't look very stable."

"It looks artificial," Zelda said. "Look, further along, those are proper walls. This plateau isn't entirely natural."

They continued around the edge of the plateau, following the wall until they came out of the woods. Climbing atop a boulder to survey their surroundings, they saw a swamp to their right and, beyond it, a strange, squat little building which resembled the room in which they'd awoken -- the Shrine of Resurrection, according to the slate. The stone -- for lack of a better term -- was a deep, glossy grey, nearly black, with rougher buff patches winding around its base. It looked like nothing so much as fired clay, with a black glaze. As they drew near, the slate chimed on Zelda's hip.

"Oman Au Shrine," she read. "And there's a new glyph -- orange, this time. I wonder what that means?"

The front of the shrine had another pedestal, just like the ones from the Shrine of Resurrection, only this one was dark, deactivated. The front face of the shrine was barred by more of those strange sliding beams.

"The dot's just down the way," Link said. "Maybe we'll find out more when we get there."

"We have to get past them, first," Zelda said.

Across the way, beyond a break in the terrain, a monster encampment was just visible. They crept along the edge-wall, until they came to a tree. The break in the terrain turned out to be a deep ravine filled with water, and more monsters.

"We are _not_ dealing with those right now," Zelda hissed.

"Maybe if we move along the top of the edge-wall, we can sneak past them," Link suggested.

"It's worth a shot," Zelda agreed. "And we'll have the high ground if they _do_ notice us."

They skirted close to the outer edge, crouched low to maximize their cover, and made it almost level with the encampment before finding that the wall had crumbled away, leaving them wide open if they were noticed. Thankfully, the monsters seemed distracted, dancing around their cookpot and making enough noise to mask Link and Zelda's progress.

All, that is, except a lone sentry, perched atop another crude watch-tower.

"Oh, Din's _fire,_" Zelda swore softly.

"D'you think you can hit that lookout from here?" Link asked. I doubt their so-called bows can reach this far, and if we scramble the others won't be able to reach us."

"Maybe?" Zelda said. "It's far enough away that maybe the others won't notice a missed shot."

They both drew their bows, taking careful aim and arcing their fire nearly 30 degrees high, even with the high ground. They both missed their first shots, but the monster didn't notice, and didn't have any room to dodge even if it had. Link's next shot hit at the same time as Zelda's, and as soon as they saw, they both launched a flurry of arrows as fast as they could draw them. In only a few seconds, the monster vanished in a cloud of smoke.

"Now!" Link hissed. "Before the others notice!"

They dashed across the open ground, scrambling back up the other side. They ran as fast as they could across the far end of the wall, until they came to another crumbled-away section just past the lookout perch.

"It's lower ground going across," Link observed. "I don't think they'll see us if we stay low." There was an open patch, but the monsters had strewn crates around, and they made for just enough cover that they were able to clear the open patch and duck behind a hill, next to a deep pool.

"Just on the other side of the hill," Zelda said, checking the slate. "I don't fancy getting wet again right now, so maybe circle around the far side?"

As they crept around the hillside, more monsters came into view. A distant pair were waving bows, facing away from them. Every so often one of them would shoot an arrow at an unseen target and they would start whooping. Further along, just next to their destination, another monster with a crude shield and a -- rather decent sword, actually -- stood, staring at the path leading up to the temple. Link crept up and finished it off, taking the sword for herself instead of the club she'd been using, and took the shield for Zelda. This gave Zelda time to pretend she hadn't been thoroughly engrossed by the strip of pale skin that had been visible when Link's too-short shirt ridden up as she crouched.

The two found themselves in a little hollow in the base of the hill, standing on a surface of more of the strange ceramic. A pedestal stood within, framed by arches of the same ceramic, and an odd inverted point, rounded at the tip and emblazoned with the same eye glyph they'd been seeing everywhere, hung directly over the pedestal.

The pedestal glowed orange.

"That's probably it," Link said.

"There's an inset here that looks like it fits the slate," Zelda confirmed. She slipped the slate in, and watched wide-eyed as the pedestal rotated the slate around, locking it into place with the screen facing out. "Sheikah Tower activated," she read. "Please watch for falling rocks. What-?" She broke off as the ground began rumbling.

With an almighty crash, the platform they were on burst upwards, showering hillside everywhere. Zelda fell backward, and Link barely saved her from hitting her head as they were both flung to the floor. Finally the rumbling stopped, and they picked themselves up.

"What in Hylia's name was that?" Link gasped.

"A Sheikah Tower, apparently," Zelda answered shakily. "Oh, look, the slate's doing something! Distilling local information..." She read.

"Um, Zelda?" Link said. "Look up?"

Liquid blue light was running down the odd stone point on the ceiling, gathering in a glowing drop at the tip before splashing against the slate. They both leaned in, peering at the screen, their foreheads brushing.

"Regional map extracted. Oh, Link! It's showing topography now! Well, for this region at least, but I imagine that means we can find a way to distill other regions as well... Link?"

Link's attention had been caught by a bright light in the distance, flaring from the castle. 

"... Try..."

"Do you hear that?" Link asked, moving over to stare at the castle.

"... Try to remember..."

"I hear it," Zelda said, joining her.

"Try to remember." The two voices that had awoken them chorused. "You have been asleep for 100 years."

Zelda started at that. "Since the kingdom fell?"

Link squinted into the distance. "What _is_ that?"

A shadow had enveloped the castle. A miasma... As they watched, it grew thicker and darker, swirling with a poisonous light. A shape formed, and even across the vast distance they could hear it snarling.

"The beast," the voices continued. "When it regains its power, this world will face its end."

Link and Zelda looked at each other and shuddered, chills running up their spines.

"You must hurry! Before it's too late!"

Four streaks of poisonous light shot from the castle, dissipating most of the miasma. Four streaks of pure golden light chased after.

"That's not ominous at all," Zelda said, dripping sarcasm.

