Chapter 2
===========================

They hadn't quite realized how high up they were until after the voices stopped. The view was amazing, and they both simply stood there, admiring the sights. There were quite a lot of ruins, though... 

"I suppose it's hard to rebuild anything if Ganon's around to ruin it all, still," Zelda mused.

"More motivation to do something about it, then," Link replied. "I'd imagine it's not so easy to explore if you're being attacked by monsters every five minutes."

Zelda just nodded, before something caught her attention again. "Look, more towers! Goodness, they're tall!" She spotted quite a few towers which looked like what she imagined the one they found themselves atop looked like from the outside. The glow reminded her of the Shrine of Resurrection. _Similar origins, most likely._

Link looked around. "Speaking of, how are we going to get down from here?"

"Um..."

They examined the platform, finding that, aside from a strange, glowing blue triune symbol near the edge, there were also three railed-off holes. Two were clogged with rocks, from when the tower had burst through the hillside, but the third was thankfully clear.

Link peered over the edge. "There's a trellis of some kind along the inner wall," she reported. "And a platform not too far down. Looks climbable."

"No time like the present," Zelda said, and began carefully climbing down. Link shrugged and followed.

Once they reached the platform, they found more spiraling all the way down the tower. They stopped frequently to rest, discussing what they could see of their surroundings as they went.

"I suppose we should deal with those two monsters playing with bows," Link remarked.

No sooner had they reached the ground, though, than a shout from above grabbed their attention.

"Ho!" The old man called, gliding in on some sort of sail. 

_Where did he come from?_ Zelda thought, bewildered.

"My, my..." The old man said upon landing. "It would seem we have quite the enigma here. This tower, and others just like it, have erupted across the land, one after the other. It is almost as though... a long-dormant power has awoken quite suddenly."

Link and Zelda looked at each other warily.

_He knows something,_ Zelda communicated with a cocked eyebrow.

_And he's not going to give us a straight answer,_ Link replied with a subtle nod.

"If you do not mind me asking..." The old man continued, drawing their gaze back. "Did anything... _odd_ occur while you were atop that tower?"

"Odd... how?" Link finally replied.

The old man harrumphed. "You need not conceal the truth from me. Truth be told, I saw the whole thing from afar."

Zelda crossed her arms and scowled.

"Although I could not hear anything," the old man went on, "I did see you react as if you heard something coming from the direction of the castle..." He caught their expressions and chuckled. "Hit the nail on the head, did I? And did you happen to recognize this mysterious voice?"

"Who said anything about a voice?" Zelda said sharply.

The old man sighed. "It seems I have some work to do as far as earning your trust goes. I suppose that is understandable." He turned, gazing across the expanse of green spread out below the plateau. "I assume you caught sight of that atrocity enshrouding the castle. That..." He sighed again, heavy with regret. "Is Calamity Ganon. One hundred years ago, that vile entity brought the kingdom of Hyrule to ruin. It appeared suddenly, and destroyed everything in its path. So many innocent lives were lost in its wake..." His voice quavered. "For a century, the very symbol of our kingdom, Hyrule Castle, has managed to contain that evil. But just barely. There it festers, building its strength for the moment it will unleash its blight upon the land once again."

Link cleared her throat. "Something... er, split off from that miasma. Four somethings, really. They flew in different directions."

The old man started at this. "It would appear that moment is fast approaching, then... I must ask you, courageous ones," he fixed them with a steely gaze. "Do you intend to make your way to the castle?"

Zelda and Link looked at each other with raised eyebrows.

"You need not say a word," the old man said. "Your eyes reveal the determination within."

Zelda scoffed, but didn't respond.

"We don't really know where we're going yet," Link finally replied.

The old man shrugged. "What will be, will be. Regardless, here, on this isolated plateau, we are surrounded on all sides by steep cliffs, with no way down. If you were to try to jump off, well... no death could be more certain. Or more foolish."

It was Link's turn to scoff. _Jump? Really? I may have just woken up, but I wasn't born yesterday._

"Of course," the old man continued, slyly. "If you had a paraglider like mine, that would be quite another story."

"Paraglider?" Zelda asked, ears twitching in curiosity. "Is that what you used to float down here from... wherever it is you came from?"

"Oho! Piqued your interest, have I?" He smirked. "Yes, I didn't come soaring down here on my own feathery wings, you know!" This got an eye-roll from both girls. "Worry not -- I will happily agree to give you my paraglider, and a spare besides. But not for nothing." He stroked his beard as the girls narrowed their eyes in suspicion. "Let's see now... How about I trade it for a bit of treasure that slumbers nearby? Come, let me show you something."

He led the way to the north edge of the hilltop, where they could see the monster-infested pond, encampment, and the shrine they'd passed earlier. It was now glowing a fiery orange.

"It's active now," Zelda murmured.

"Do you see that structure there?" The old man said, gesturing to the shrine. "The one shining with a strange light? It began glowing at the exact moment those towers rose up from the ground. I would think such a place might house some sort of treasure, wouldn't you?"

Link shrugged.

"Treasure for the paragliders," the old man said. "A fair exchange, I believe."

Zelda pulled Link a bit away so they could talk it over. "I'd like to get a closer look at the shrine anyway," she said.

"Doesn't sound like he's asking anything we wouldn't likely do regardless," Link agreed. "Let's see what's in there first, before we agree to anything."

"Yes, let's," Zelda replied. "We might have an easier time circling around the near side of that pond, though."

Link nodded, and they made it to the shrine without incident. The pedestal lit up as they approached, and Zelda knelt to examine it.

"This symbol," she started. "A glowing eye, with a teardrop at the bottom. It seems to be everywhere lately."

Link nodded absently, keeping guard for approaching monsters.

"The last pedestal we saw like this activated with a tap of the slate," Zelda mused. She suited action to words, and squeaked when the pedestal chimed and flared blue. A triune seal they'd missed on the shrine's platform lit up in the same eerie blue light.

Zelda glanced at the slate and saw words appear. "'Sheikah Slate confirmed. Travel Gate registered to map.' What do you suppose a travel gate is?"

The slate chirped again. "Access granted."

Link let out a surprised yelp as, with a rumble, the previously-barred doorway swung open. Inside was a shallow alcove, with another glowing blue seal on the floor.

"Another eye," Zelda observed. She moved to examine it more closely, Link right behind her. This turned out to be a good move, as no sooner had they set foot upon the seal than it flared blue and began to sink into the ground.

+++++

"To you who sets foot in this shrine, I am Oman Au. In the name of the goddess Hylia, I offer this trial."

The words echoed from everywhere and nowhere as soon as they stepped off the lift, passing through a perimeter of more blue light.

"More disembodied voices," Zelda commented. "Do you think we'll ever see another actual person, or are we and the old man all that's left?"

"Din, I hope we're not the only ones left," Link replied. "That would be awfully lonely, even with each other for company."

Zelda nodded, and squeezed Link's hand in comfort. "Look, another pedestal!" She exclaimed, gratefully changing the subject.

Zelda began rambling out observations as they drew closer. "This one has an obelisk above it, just like the one on the tower. And a slot for the slate, again similar. There seems to be two types of pedestal, so far: one seems to expand the slate's functionality, register new information, and similar. The other seems to simply register the slate's presence, and allow or deny access accordingly. How fascinating!" She slipped the slate into the pedestal's cradle and read the words that appeared on its screen.

"Sheikah Slate authenticated. Distilling rune..." The obelisk flowed with glowing blue symbols, just like at the tower, until a large drop splashed onto the slate. "Rune extracted. Magnesis..."

Zelda removed the slate, moving so Link could see too. "I wonder what that means?" She touched the symbol on the slate, and gasped as glowing red lines pulsed in waves on the screen. A couple of metal panels on the floor they'd missed glowed a brighter, solid red. As Zelda turned to face them, the one which was centered on the screen began to glow a pulsing yellow instead. 

Link reached over and poked the screen. "What d'you suppose the yellow means?"

Zelda turned to face her. "Link, I-"

The panel flew through the air and slammed against the wall with an almighty crash. They both jumped, turning to look, and found that it was floating in the air, and rainbow streams of energy flowed between it and the slate.

"Farore's wind!" Link breathed.

"Remarkable!" Zelda exclaimed, beaming. She slowly moved the slate around. "No sensation of weight. The streams of energy seem to have inertia, though, lagging a bit behind the movement of the object itself. And there's a little marker on the screen, showing where it would land if I set it down! Link, imagine the possibilities," she gushed. "Construction, Link, this could make rebuilding so much easier!"

"Not to mention clearing us a way forward," Link replied sardonically. 

"Oh! Yes, yes, of course," Zelda stammered, blushing.

"You're right, though," Link grinned. "This opens up so many possibilities! Also, I think I remember seeing a metal chest at the bottom of that pond just outside..."

They traded off the slate for awhile, both getting a feel for this new ability, before settling down and climbing down the hole they'd uncovered. They went through a tunnel and up a ramp, emerging to see a wall of large stone blocks stacked atop each other, with an obviously-metal one in their midst.

"Is this an obstacle course, d'you think?" Link asked.

"It's certainly looking like one so far," Zelda agreed. "A new tool, and practice using it. Well, let us see what's beyond this wall." She activated the rune, capturing the metal block and using it to push the others clear. She was startled, though, by a shout from Link.

"What the carp is _that?_"

Zelda turned, dropping the block. "Link, did you just swear on a fish?"

Link blushed. "Maybe, but that's not important. There's one of those _things_ on the other side of that wall -- the ones with tentacles!"

Zelda peered carefully through the gap she'd made, and reared back quickly. "I think it saw me!"

A mechanical whine sounded beyond the blocks, followed by a small explosion against them.

"I think you're right!" Link exclaimed, readying her sword and shield.

Zelda caught her breath. "Link, wait a moment. Maybe I can drop that metal block on it. Or," she risked another swift peek, "yes! There are troughs of water to either side. Maybe I can knock it in."

Zelda activated the rune again, using the block to push a few others forward to give herself room to maneuver. They crept carefully behind the blocks, and Zelda risked another peek to aim her impromptu flail.

"Just a little over... there! Gotcha!" She crowed in victory as the construct was slammed over the pool and into the wall. It collapsed into the water, and they heard a muffled *whump* as it exploded.

"Nice work, Zelda!" Link congratulated, squeezing her shoulder.

They peered cautiously out from behind their shelter, but the room was devoid of further foes.

"More obstacles," Zelda mused.

"And there's the treasure!" Link said, spotting a metal chest sitting high on a shelf. They made their way closer, making good use of the Magnesis rune, and lifted the chest off the shelf. Link opened it to find a bow inside.

"Huh," she said, bemused. "That's the treasure?"

"Maybe he meant scavenged parts from that construct," Zelda replied, "but I don't see anything else so far. Maybe there's something behind this door?"

They levered open the enormous metal double-doors and gasped.

Upon an elaborate dais, surrounded by a glowing blue barrier, was a person. Or... what was left of one? The two drifted forward as one, almost in a trance as they ascended the stairs. In tandem, they each reached out a hand to the barrier. It rippled at their touch before shattering in a cloud of blue light, and revealed the desiccated body of a monk, sitting in a meditative pose. 

A voice echoed from everywhere and nowhere. "You have proven to have the resolve of true heroes," it said. "I am Oman Au, creator of this trial and a humble monk blessed with the sight of the goddess Hylia. I and my order are dedicated to assisting those who seek to defeat the Calamity Ganon."

"How-?" Zelda whispered.

"With your success in overcoming this trial, my duty is now fulfilled. Please accept this spirit orb. May the goddess Hylia smile upon you."

An orb of glowing purple light formed between the monk's withered hands, before splitting in two and sinking into both girls' chests. 

_Warm,_ Link noted, enjoying the fuzzy feeling the orb had brought.

They gaped a moment later, though, as the monk's body dissolved in a cloud of pale green ghost-fire. Before they could react further, a bright golden light enveloped them and, when they could see again, they found themselves at the bottom of the lift.

"Wh-what just happened?" Link stammered.

"Magic," Zelda said, awed. "Actual, honest-to-Hylia magic! Oh, I _wish_ that monk had stayed longer! And I still don't have anything I can make notes with!"

+++++

When they finally emerged from the shrine, the sun had set. No sooner had they registered that fact, though, than the old man appeared, gliding down again from who-knows-where.

"It seems you managed to get your hands on a Spirit Orb," he greeted them. "Well done!"

"How in the world did you know that!?" Zelda exclaimed.

"Clairvoyance!" The old man exclaimed gleefully. "Or perhaps just something similar. As one gets older, it can become more difficult to see what is right before one's own eyes... However, that which was once hidden from view can often be crystal clear. But perhaps that is not true for everyone!" He chuckled, before sobering. "The appearance of those towers and the awakening of this shrine... It is all connected to that Sheikah Slate you carry on your hip there."

Zelda was too taken aback to reply. _This man knows far more than he's letting on,_ she thought. _And he hasn't even given his name, nor a clear answer to a single question of any substance._

"What do you mean?" Link said, when the silence drew on.

"It has been quite some time since I have seen that Sheikah Slate..." The old man replied. "Long ago, a highly advanced tribe known as the Sheikah inhabited these lands. The great power of their wisdom saved the kingdom time and time again. But their ancient technology disappeared long ago... Or so it is said. It is interesting, however, to think... how something like that survived all this time, hidden away in a shrine."

"It is..." Zelda temporalized.

"These shrines are tucked away in numerous places all across this land," the old man continued. "On this plateau alone, I believe there are still three more. Bring me the treasure from each of those shrines... and I will give you my paragliders."

"Wait, that wasn't what you said earlier!" Zelda objected.

"Oh?" The old man retorted. "Well, I suppose I changed my mind. I'm sure that won't be a problem for a couple of young go-getters like you!" He continued. "Since I'm feeling generous, though, I will also teach you a trick for finding shrines. It's always best to survey the area by looking around from a high point. Let's see here... How about you make your way to the top of that tower again?"

"Are you joking?" Zelda spat. "It's dark out, and there are monsters everywhere!"

The old man laughed -- _laughed!_ -- at that. "I am afraid not. But do not worry! I have another little trick to share with you for your effort. Take a look at the map on your Sheikah Slate."

Zelda grumbled, but obligingly opened the map.

"See those blue icons?" The old man instructed. "You should recognize the cave where you woke, the shrine you came from, and the tower."

_How does he know we woke in a cave?_ Zelda wondered, but the question fled her mind at the old man's next words.

"You can travel instantly to any of those places with the Sheikah Slate. Or so I heard quite some time ago... I do not know if it actually works as such." He turned away and stood, staring into the distance, lost in thought.

"Um..." Link said, getting his attention again.

"Try traveling to the top of the tower," the old man finally said, shaking himself from his reverie. "From there, you should be able to scout the location of another shrine."

"You sure know a lot..." Zelda trailed off, her suspicions bubbling out.

The old man just chuckled. "When you have been around as long as I have," he said, his voice implying _something,_ "you pick up a thing or two. Go on, why not try it out?"

"But-"

"Go on! Get to the top of that tower, and find those remaining shrines!" He turned away, dismissing them, and walked off into the night.

"You infuriating -- _aaargh,_" Zelda grumbled, stamping over to the edge of the pond. Link followed as she whipped out the slate and activated the Magnesis rune.

"Oh hey, more treasure!" Link said, peering over her shoulder and distracting her from her ire. "There are a couple of chests there, and a big metal plank. I think I remember seeing some more chests on a rotted old bit of ruin in that swamp over there. We might be able to reach them with it!"

Zelda smiled indulgently at her, grateful for the distraction. "Yes, let's," she agreed. "We still don't have a good way to start a cook-fire, and it's well past dinner time. Maybe we'll find something to help with that."

These chests did contain treasure, opals and rubies rough in the matrix. Still, they gleamed alluringly in the moonlight.

They made their way towards where Link had seen the chests in the swamp, carrying what seemed to be an old metal shutter for a long, thin window. They'd just reached the edge when a pair of bats with glowing red eyes dove at them from the darkness.

"Ack!" Zelda yelped, flailing at them with the plank.

Link drew her sword and slashed at them, driving them away, but the bats just circled around and dove at them again. One managed to slash at her with a claw, leaving her cheek bleeding.

"Go. Away!" She shrieked, finally connecting with her sword. The creature fell from the air with a thump, before vanishing in a puff of smoke.

"More monsters," Zelda huffed as she squashed the other one with the plank. "Are you alright, Link?"

Link touched her cheek gingerly. "Just a scratch, I think," she answered. "Come on, let's finish with that treasure and get out of here."

The plank was just barely long enough to span the gap. The swamp bubbled ominously as Link made her way across.

"Ooh!" She squealed when she opened the chests. "Are these... Zelda!" She called, stuffing the contents away and quickly returning to her companion. "Magic arrows!" She pulled out one of each kind. "One chest had fire, and the other ice. Hopefully I can use one to cook dinner without using it up!"

"Wonderful!" Zelda agreed, hugging Link in excitement. "Let's get going before more monsters show up." She pulled out the slate, still with an arm around Link, and tapped the icon for the tower. A message popped up on the screen. "Travel, or Cancel. Well, here goes nothing!" She tapped on _Travel,_ and the two girls were suddenly wreathed in ribbons of blue light.

+++++

"That was a truly bizarre sensation," Zelda said when the lights dissipated. "Are we-? Where did _you_ come from?" For they were indeed at the top of the tower, right on top of the triune symbol inset in the floor, and not ten feet away stood the old man.

"Well!" He chuckled in greeting. "You certainly took your time. Did you forget how to travel instantly?"

"Of course not," Zelda scoffed. "Did you not see us appear in blue light? We certainly didn't _climb_ here. Did you?"

The old man simply smiled mysteriously. "I wanted you to join me up here so you could use this as a vantage point to search for shrines. Did you know about the scope on your Sheikah Slate?"

"Wait, the _what?_" Zelda said, bewildered.

"Look through it," the old man went on, "and you can stick a pin anywhere you'd like to mark on the map. They'll serve as reference points for your travels. Just stick one anywhere you're interested in!"

"How in the world do you know so much about this slate?" Zelda asked insistently.

"Just a few tricks I've picked up after many, many years in the wild..." The old man replied, his mysterious smile returning. "You may take my advice or leave it. Go ahead and take a look if you feel inclined to do so."

Zelda barely restrained a growl.

"Before you go," he continued, as the smile faded from his face. "I know this place to be treacherous, even to spry youngsters like yourselves." He gestured to the cut on Link's cheek. "Here, take this fairy with you. I hope it keeps you safe."

"First monsters, then magic, and now fairies!" Zelda said. "What sort of world have we found ourselves in, Link?"

"An interesting one," Link replied, a knowing grin on her face.

+++++

They did take the old man's advice, spotting the three shrines by their orange glow in the night. Then, finally, mercifully, they managed to have dinner. Link had scrounged up some firewood during their earlier exploring, and used a fire arrow to get a cook-fire started at the edge of the platform. The old man had bid them good night earlier, and leapt off to glide away to wherever he disappeared to, so they had no-one to overhear as they discussed his suspicious behavior over a meal of grilled boar steaks.

"We'll have to confront him at some point," Zelda said, after they'd recounted everything. "We have so many questions, and he keeps evading the answers!"

"Right?" Link agreed. "I don't even know how I know how to do everything I've done today. Hunting? Cooking? Even shooting a bow, shouldn't that take years of practice to be as accurate as we both are? And you, swimming around in that pond like you've been doing it all your life!"

"Maybe I have," Zelda shrugged. "It was easy enough, as long as I didn't start to think about it."

"So was hunting and fighting," Link said. "Muscle memory, I guess. Or some unbelievably good natural instincts."

"Hopefully our luck holds out, tomorrow," Zelda said. "What wonders shall we discover in the other shrines?"

"Some flint, maybe," Link teased.

+++++

They slept fitfully on the hard surface, feet to the fire and cuddled close for warmth, and when they woke the coals were still glowing, so Link made mushroom omelets.

"Where to next?" She asked, serving up the omelets. 

They'd found mess kits tucked away in their adventuring harnesses, and bedrolls, which made things rather less awkward than they could have been. Further inventory hadn't revealed many more unexpected resources, sadly -- only some water-skins, a bar of soap, a tatty old towel, and, to Zelda's delight, a blank notebook. There was nothing to write _with,_ though, and she'd resolved to see about crafting something less crude than a burnt stick.

"The Eastern Abbey, I think," Zelda replied. "The other shrines seem to be atop a mountain, and it looks absolutely _frigid_ up there. Maybe we'll find something helpful in this next one to make it easier to reach the others."

They spent some time seeing to their gear. Link used some of the leftover boar fat on the bowstrings, checked the wood over, and polished their swords as best she could. Their shields were so crude as to be a lost cause, and she hoped fervently that they found something better before long.

Zelda, meanwhile, had carefully split one of the straighter unburnt twigs, about as thick as her thumb, and carved out a channel with the point of her hunting knife. She mixed ashes from the fire with some of the boar fat, which had congealed by now to a thick, waxy consistency. This she smeared into the channels, and glued the twig back together with some resin which had bubbled out of one of the logs.

"Ta-dah!" She exclaimed, showing her creation to Link once the resin had dried.

"That's amazing!" Link gushed. "How did you work out how to do all that?"

"I just thought it through, I guess," Zelda replied.

"You're brilliant!" Link said, "I'm so glad you're here with me."

Zelda beamed. "We do make a pretty great team, don't we? I do wonder," she added, tapping her lip with a fingernail, "what we were to each other before."

"Maybe someday we'll remember," Link said with a soft smile. "My guess is best friends."

Zelda blushed, but returned the smile.

Eventually, they broke camp and clambered back down the tower, opting to make their way along the edge-wall to the Abbey. After a while they reached the outskirts, where they found another of the large constructs sitting in a puddle under a tree. They could see the shrine looming over the crumbled walls of the abbey ruins. They passed under the remains of an archway, finding another legless construct.

As they drew near, though, it seemed to shake itself awake, glowing with a poisonous pink light. A lens flared blue, like a great malicious eye, and a red beam played over them as it chirped, faster and faster as its aim steadied.

Link yelled, pulling Zelda back through the archway -- and not a moment too soon, as there was a bright flash, and an explosion shook the stones they huddled behind.

"Wh-what the hell was that!?" Zelda gasped, shaking.

"Terrifying!" Link gasped back. "How do we get past _that?_"

Zelda took a deep breath and held it, finally letting out in a burst. "So. That red light, did you notice it?"

Link nodded.

"I think it's using that to aim. So if we can stay behind cover, I don't think we need to worry about it hearing us."

They backed away slowly, keeping the ruined wall between them and the construct, and circled around to the edge of the wall.

"We're going to have to make a run for it," Link said.
