Chapter 3
==========================

"Where to next?" Link asked, as they appeared atop the tower.

Zelda peered through the slate's scope. "It looks like there's a cabin in those woods beyond that monster's territory," she replied, "and I see smoke towards the front. Maybe whoever lives there can help us get to the other two shrines. I don't like our chances dealing with that kind of cold right now."

Link glanced at the screen over her shoulder. "If we circle around the far side of the temple we should be able to avoid getting that beast's attention. And if we transport to the shrine where we woke up, we won't need to climb down from here."

They suited action to words, stopping by the pond for a quick lunch of freshly-caught fish, and made their way along the west wall of the temple.

"I still can't believe you caught those fish with your bare hands!" Zelda said as they left the pond behind.

Link shrugged. "I don't think they know enough to be wary. Didn't a few swim right into your pouch yesterday?"

"That's true, I suppose," Zelda replied. "But still, it was rather impressive of you."

They paused at the bottom of the slope. To their left, far enough away that it hadn't noticed them, was the large quadrupedal monster. On their right was another encampment of the smaller bipedal monsters, complete with a lookout on its tower. And directly ahead, atop a small rise and just past a large boulder, was the cabin Zelda had spotted. They made a dash for the boulder, circling past and avoiding the monsters, to find none other than the old man, sitting on a log by a cook-fire in front of the cabin.

"Oho!" He greeted them. "Fancy that! So we meet again."

"Hello there!" Link waved. "You look as if you're trying to remember something."

"Very astute," the old man agreed. "These old bones aren't what they used to be. I created a dish, you see, not long ago, made with spicy peppers to keep me warm. It's much less itchy than a doublet, but for the life of me I can't remember the recipe. I could swear I wrote it down," he grumbled in consternation.

"What did you name the dish?" Zelda asked curiously.

"Spicy meat and seafood fry," the old man replied absently. "I gathered some spicy peppers yesterday, and a boar this morning, but I forgot what else I needed."

Zelda cocked an eyebrow. "Might the missing ingredient be a fish of some sort?" She asked dryly.

"Oh!" Link exclaimed. "May I?"

The old man nodded, gesturing to where the meat and peppers were, already sliced. "By all means! If you can help me with this recipe, I'll gladly give you each a warm doublet, and be glad of it! Never did like how the wool itches," he trailed off.

Zelda handed a fish -- a Hyrule bass, according to the old man -- to Link, who promptly gutted, cleaned, and de-boned it before throwing all the ingredients into the cook-pot with a few crushed herbs. Zelda dutifully wrote down the recipe as Link completed each step, handing it to the old man once the dish was done.

"Wonderful!" He cried joyfully. "It smells divine. One moment." He stood with a creak, ducking inside the cabin before returning with a thick woolen bundle. "I scavenged these, and some others, from the abbey ruins an age ago. I do believe they'll serve you well. And speaking of, how goes the treasure hunt?"

"It's progressing," Zelda replied. "We were just wondering about the best route up the mountain."

"Well," the old man replied, "if memory serves there's an old path along the River of the Dead -- so named because the water's dead cold!" He chuckled. "You'll still need to do some climbing, of course, but the way to both shrines is much less steep from that side. Be careful, though -- the bokoblins seem to love it up there."

"Bokoblins?" Zelda asked. "Is that what those little monsters are called?"

"With big heads?" The old man confirmed. "Indeed they are. Vicious little creatures, but not very bright. Still, they swarm."

"Lovely," Zelda muttered.

"What about that big one past the trees, by the abbey?" Link asked.

"Ah, the lynel," the old man replied somberly. "Stay well away from them. You won't find a more dangerous beast than that shy of the great molduga of the Gerudo desert, nor more cruel. And what's more, they breathe fire."

Link and Zelda stared at each other with wide eyes.

"Now," the old man continued. "If you'd like to get in some practice dealing with those bokoblins before venturing up the mountain, that bunch down the ravine have kept me from my stash of bomb-arrows, and all their carrying on at all hours keeps me awake at night. If you can clear those vermin out, the arrows are yours."

"We won't be able to avoid them forever," Link shrugged.

"And we'll have the high ground," Zelda added. "Alright. No time like the present."

They stealthily made their way to the edge of the ravine, where Link managed to daze the lookout with her first arrow, knocking it from its perch. It stood, shaking its head and smacking itself in the face with its ridiculous floppy ears, then settled where it fell and began looking around.

"Not too bright, are they?" Zelda murmured.

"Lucky for us."

They sent a hail of arrows into the creature, quickly felling it, and set their sights on the three dancing around a fire some ways off.

"More crates for cover," Zelda murmured. "I can't get a bead on them with that other tower in the way."

They stole carefully down the end of the ravine, creeping up behind the rotted old crates.

"All their weapons are against that log over there," Zelda observed quietly. "I'll sneak over and steal them while you cover me."

She darted out at Link's nod, managing to stuff the last of them in a pouch even as she was noticed.

Link's first arrow went wide, but distracted them long enough for Zelda to draw her sword and put the log between her and the bokoblins. Then she drew their attention back to give Link time to draw her own sword, swinging the claymore around like a shot-put as she advanced. The bokoblins, bereft of weapons, responded with thrown rocks and fists and teeth, but were swiftly dispatched with only a few scrapes and bruises to show for it.

Link checked the crates in passing, and whooped with joy. Not only were there another short-sword, a spear, and a proper shield, but she'd finally found some flint! Zelda laughed at her exuberance, getting a bashful grin out of the other girl that made her blush.

Behind some shoddy wooden planks leaned against the mouth of a small cave on the far side of the camp, they found the bomb arrows -- and above them, a hive of courser bees. Even as they watched, the hive fell from where it had hung, shaken loose by their moving the planks, and the bees began to swarm, chasing them back out of the cave as they flailed around them with their shields. Eventually, the bees flew off, leaving behind a few stings and an entire hive full of honey and, luckily for their bow-strings and Zelda's note-taking, beeswax.

_Worth it,_ Link decided,  carefully scraping the stingers out.


+++++


By then it was too late in the day to attempt the mountain, so they took over the bokoblins' camp for the night. The monsters had had a side of boar roasting on a spit over the fire, big enough for both dinner and breakfast, and a snack besides.

_Snuggling for warmth again,_ Link thought as they turned in. _I could get used to this._

After breaking camp in the morning, they followed a shallow stone stairway from the west side of the temple, creeping past another bokoblin camp. Through an archway, the weather changed abruptly and snow covered the ground. Clad in their warm doublets though they were, the chill nipped their noses and the tips of their ears, and their breath fogged in front of them. The paved path continued, half-buried as it was, past the ruins of a shack to the remains of a dock. A crude raft still bobbed at the end, though it was inaccessible as most of what remained were half-rotten posts. There was a bokoblin perched on an even more crudely-crafted raft, and at the corners -

"Are those... _alive?_" Zelda asked incredulously.

Strange pink cephalopods bobbed in the air, with their tentacles bound by rope to the corners of the raft. Their eerie green eyes bulged, and their snouts snuffled the air aimlessly.

"Sure look like it," Link confirmed. "I wonder what they are?"

"I'll bet the old man knows," Zelda said. She drew her bow and put an arrow clean between the bokoblin's eyes.

Link whistled. "Wow, nice shot!"

The continued on, finding that the bokoblin had been guarding a chest with another proper shield within. A weight she hadn't realized was there fell from Link's shoulders at this discovery; the last of their crude combat equipment had finally been replaced.

At the riverside, they stopped to consult the map, finding that the only way across the river was to circle around the headwaters. While the slope was gentle enough for the most part, reaching the far shrine meant traversing the entirety of Mount Hylia.

"Definitely the southern one next," Zelda decided.

They found a weathered, but still sharp enough, woodsman's axe lodged in a tree along the way, which Link held on to. They were beginning to run low on firewood.

A short while later, the gentle slope ended at a shallow box canyon, atop of which was yet another bokoblin camp.

"_Din,_" Zelda swore. "There's no way they won't see us!"

They climbed swiftly up the side of the canyon. Zelda charged into the fray, bashing the monsters with her shield and running around the camp, keeping them following her. Link, meanwhile, harried them with arrows -- until the arm of her bow snapped.

"Damn this cold!" She growled, dropping the ruined bow and charging even as she drew her sword.

It was a short but brutal battle, and they emerged battered, but victorious. They stopped for lunch by the bokoblins' fire, then continued following the slope up -- and straight into another camp just over the rise. A number of odd red barrels were strewn throughout the site.

"Those look flammable," Zelda cackled, and hurled a rune-bomb right into their midst.

Bokoblins flew everywhere, and the remains of a wooden chest whistled right past Link's ear to bounce off the rocks behind her.

"Sweet Hylia that packs a punch!" Zelda crowed as they ran up the slope.

"You are having far too much fun with those," Link commented, stopping to catch her breath at the top of the ridge. The enormous grin on her face made it clear that Zelda wasn't the only one.

They turned east then, climbing carefully down a rock face to reach the Owa Daim shrine just below.

This shrine's new rune, Stasis, left Zelda gaping in shock.

"It _stops time?_" She squeaked. "But _how?_"

"The entire concept is downright mind-boggling," Link agreed. "Not to mention what happens once time _restarts._"

They continued on. Link spotted a chest nestled under a boulder just outside the shrine; she used the new rune (and a sledgehammer they'd found inside the shrine) to clear away the rock, and found a new bow.

"Looks like our luck is holding," she remarked. "Remind me to rub some boar fat into the wood later. Maybe it won't break on me like the last one."

They backtracked up the cliff and along the ridge, spotting more bokoblins along the front face of the mountain and cutting along the back, scaling another cliff rather than get too close. When finally they reached the shrine, the sun was beginning to set and, once again, they found a bokoblin camp in their way. They were spotted well in advance, and the bokoblins rolled enormous snow-balls down at them before they could close in, but in the end they prevailed and were rewarded with the bokoblins' dinner -- yet another side of roast boar. As sunset was nigh, they took a break to eat before continuing on to the Keh Namut shrine.

"These runes make an absolute mockery of the laws of thermodynamics!" Zelda cried, upon first testing their new Cryonis rune.

Link shrugged. "Magic."

"Yes," Zelda retorted, "but _how?_ I must know!"

"Your life's motto," Link giggled. "Maybe we'll find some books once we get down to Hyrule proper."

Zelda's eyes gleamed at that, and they blazed through the obstacle course in record time.


+++++


For all their rush, a small construct took them by surprise halfway through the course, and they found out the hard way about fairies. No sooner had they turned a corner, when an eye-searing bolt of blue slammed into Link, throwing her into the wall with a smoking hole in her head and a ghastly _crunch._

"Link!" Zelda wailed, but before she could react further the fairy, which the old man had given them on their first night, burst forth from her pouch and over to Link. A soft light surrounded them, and when it cleared not a second later Link's wound was completely healed.

A feral light gleamed in Link's eyes as she drew the sledgehammer. "My turn," she growled, and charged. When she was done, all that remained of the construct was a pile of misshapen rubble, and bits of ceramic strewn everywhere. Link stood over the remains, panting, sledgehammer slung over one shoulder, and Zelda was so relieved she couldn't help but fling her arms around her.

"Oh, Link! I thought you were _dead!_" She sobbed.

Link dropped the sledgehammer and squeezed her tight. "Hylia, Zelda, so did I. My life flashed before my eyes, and three days is not _nearly_ long enough."

A hysterical giggle burst forth amid Zelda's sobs, and she buried her face in Link's neck as the mingled sobs and giggles ran their course. Link just held on tighter and rubbed her back. Finally, Zelda looked up.

"Let me see where it hit you," she requested, running her fingers softly over Link's forehead. "Not a scratch... still as beautiful as ever. Um!" She stiffened, blushing, as she realized what she'd said.

Link smiled, softly at first, and Zelda's heart skipped a beat. _Like a sunrise,_ she thought, captivated.

"Do you really think I'm beautiful?" Link asked, voice _so small._

Zelda could only nod emphatically, shaking herself from her daze and giving Link a squeeze before stepping back out of their embrace.

All told, Zelda was rather glad to return to the cold outside the shrine. It helped cool the uncontrollable blush her face insisted upon whenever Link smiled.


+++++


Night had well and truly fallen when they returned. The moonlight gave the snow an ethereal glow, and though the wind was strong, the air _felt_ still.

"Ho!" The old man dropped from his glider, shattering the stillness and landing just below the shrine. "With this, you have now acquired all of the spirit orbs from the shrines on this plateau. Extraordinary!"

Link shrugged.

"That means..." The old man continued. "It is finally time." He heaved a sigh. "It is finally time to tell you everything. But first..."

_Here we go again,_ Zelda thought, crossing her arms. _Never a straight answer._

"Imagine an X on your map, with the four shrines as the end points. Find the spot where those lines intersect. I shall wait for you there."

"Woah, wait a minute," Zelda interrupted. "It's the middle of the night, it's _freezing,_ and you want us to wander around a ruined old temple? Absolutely not."

"There is no time," the old man replied. "Do you understand?" He began to shimmer, sparks of green ghost-fire playing over his form. "Where the two lines intersect... there... I shall wait..." And he was gone, faded into the aether just as the monks had.

"What. The. _Fuck._" Link said.

"I'm too tired for this," Zelda groaned. "We're going to sleep now, and deal with that daft old ghost in the morning." She grabbed Link's hand and sent them both to the Shrine of Resurrection.


+++++


Morning found them feeling much less frazzled. After a quick breakfast of roasted apples and boar bacon, the pair made their way back to the temple.

"Um, Zelda," Link said hesitantly as they entered the main chapel. "Is the statue... glowing?"

"No, Link, of course not." Zelda shook her head, blinking furiously. "It's _shimmering._"

"Oh," Link replied faintly. "Of course. Zelda?"

"Yes, Link?"

"What have we gotten ourselves into?"

They locked eyes and lost themselves to giggles for a moment.

"Come on, then," Zelda finally said, catching her breath. "Let's go find some answers."

As they drew nearer the statue, a sense of reverence stole over them, until by the time they reached it, they felt an overwhelming sense of peace wash over them. Words -- meanings, really -- appeared in their minds.

_I am the goddess Hylia. You who have conquered the shrines, my faithful monks have blessed you with the strength of their spirits. Granddaughter, I know you crave answers, so know this: I am forbidden from acting directly in mortal matters by the Laws of the Three, and can only guide the shape of what already is. But by the grace of the monks, there is more of your essence to guide, and so I shall guide its shape to help you endure the challenges to come._

A great warmth filled them both, and for a moment they felt suffused with light.

_Go,_ the goddess commanded, _and bring peace to Hyrule._

The presence faded from the temple, and they stared at each other for a moment in awe.

"Ho!" 

The reverent stillness was shattered -- again -- by a voice from above. Looking up, they saw the old man, still rimed with ghost-fire, calling to them from what remained of the temple roof.

"I see the blessing of the goddess has made you more resilient! Join me up here, quickly!" He disappeared.

"Now how in the world are we supposed to get up there?" Zelda grumbled.

"Hmm... Wasn't there a ladder on the patio?" Link led the way out the crumbled east wall, and sure enough, found a ladder to the temple roof. It was miraculously intact.

"Suspiciously convenient," Zelda mused.

Link shrugged and began climbing. "So much has been, lately," she called back.

They found that the pitched roof was a shallow-enough angle for purchase, and made their way along the peak to the central bell-tower which rose over the temple's main doors. The old man was waiting for them.

"Well done, young ones!" He greeted them. "The time has finally come... to tell you who I truly am. My name is King Rhoam Bosphoramus Hyrule. I was... " His voice hitched. "The last king of Hyrule. A kingdom which no longer exists."

Zelda gasped and grabbed Link's hand. King Rhoam continued with his story, explaining how he'd taken the form of an unassuming old man to ease them into the world when they awoke, how the Calamity had been prophesied, and of the Champions and their divine beasts. He told of a princess and her knight, destined to wield sacred power, and the Guardians, automatons with the strength to stand against Ganon's monstrosities. And he told of how it had all crumbled when Ganon wrested control of the Guardians and Divine Beasts right out from under them. How the Champions were slain, and the knight fell, gravely wounded, defending the princess to the bitter end...

"That princess was my own daughter... My dear Zelda. You." He locked eyes with Zelda and she gasped, memories flooding her mind. "And the courageous knight who protected her right up to the very end... That knight was none other than you, Link."

Zelda shook herself from her memories as Link asked, "How did we survive, then? How has Ganon not yet prevailed?"

"Members of the Sheikah tribe," King Rhoam answered, "loyal retainers to the crown, reached you just in time. They brought you both to the Shrine of Resurrection, at the brink of death. The Champions were valiant, possessed of indomitable spirit. They fight on, even after death, holding back the Calamity at Hyrule Castle. Or so they had, until the Calamity felt the Towers awaken. It seems the nature of the battle has changed." A troubled look crossed his face. "Time runs short indeed. You must seek out the elder, Impa, at Kakariko Village. She will be able to provide further guidance. Pass through the Dueling Peaks and follow the road north. Look to the map on your slate. And Zelda..." 

He paused, and gazed at Zelda with a fathomless sorrow in his eyes. "My dear daughter. I am sorry, for my failure to be a proper father to you. Take this second chance! Live the life _you_ want, and let _no one_ say otherwise! I am sorry that the weight of saving this land rests on your shoulders. I should have listened to you... before..." He broke down sobbing.

"_Father!_" Zelda croaked, reaching out a hand. It passed right through him.

"My purpose here is done. I must take up the watch upon Hyrule Castle, for there is yet none other who can. Zelda! Link! Make haste, and take care of each other..."

With that, he was gone, vanished into the aether like morning fog.

"Father..." Zelda sobbed, collapsing into Link's arms as they sank to the floor. "You _bastard!_" She hissed, between sobs. "To find I have a father and have him ripped away in a single moment! This is all your fault! Some king you were..." 

Eventually, all of Zelda's anger and sorrow had been cried out, and she was left, hollow and bereft, in Link's embrace.

"He was right about one thing," Link said eventually. "This is a second chance at life. And there's nobody left to tell us how to live it but us. Together."

"You'd stick around after all that?" Zelda said, swiping at her tears.

"I literally died for you," Link replied, squeezing her. "If you think I'm going to just walk away after _that,_ you're very much mistaken."


+++++


They spent another day on the plateau, gathering supplies and taking comfort in the familiar, such as it was, to process everything they'd been told. King Rhoam had left them a chest with the paragliders, and a well-maintained Hyrulean soldier's bow. Zelda also retrieved the axe they'd found on the first day, and they spend awhile stockpiling firewood and hunting. They also cleared out the monsters from the camp by Oman Au's shrine, finding more fire arrows, a collection of weapons -- proper weapons, not like the bokoblins' crude clubs -- and a wide variety of foodstuffs which, presumably, the monsters had gathered. And quite a bit of flint, much to Link's delight and Zelda's amusement.

"I'm glad so many resources have survived from the Calamity," Zelda remarked that evening, as Link cooked, both dinner and food for the road.

"It makes me hopeful," Link said. "If so much has survived, maybe more than a few people have too. There's Kakariko, at the very least... I wonder what it's like, there?"

Zelda toasted with her water-skin. "Here's to tomorrow, then. May our journey be full of new discoveries!"

"Here, here!" Link agreed heartily.
