Chapter 4
==========================

They used the slate to travel up to the tower the next morning, using the higher vantage point to scout their intended route. Just beyond the plateau, ruins stretched along a road, leading from the base of the plateau to a river delta in the distance, where one of the tributaries curved out of sight between the Dueling Peaks. Another Sheikah Tower lay just at the edge of clarity, almost lost in the haze of distance and the shadow of the peaks but for its bright orange glow. The ruins appeared clear of monsters, though both girls readily acknowledge the abundant places one might hide in ambush.

"Straight down the middle?" Link asked. "Shall we explore the ruins, or see how far our paragliders get us?"

"Link," Zelda whined. "How could you make me choose like that!?" She grinned, and continued. "Let's get as far as we can. I for one am hoping for a proper bath when we reach the village. If we really want to explore the ruins, we can always just have the slate bring us back."

Their gliders carried them nearly to the foot of the bridge, whooping gleefully, where they found the Bosh Kala shrine tucked away nearby. Monk Bosh Kala did not have a new power for the slate, but the shrine's challenge did give them quite a bit of practice with their paragliders.

A light drizzle had just ended when they emerged, and the stone of Proxim Bridge was slick with water. Halfway across, they met their first Hylian (who wasn't a spirit, anyway). A man was standing just before the far end of the bridge, leaning against a spear and staring over the water to the west.

"The end is near..." He muttered as they approached, though he hadn't noticed them yet, or hadn't acknowledged them at any rate.

Zelda couldn't help herself. "What do you mean?" She asked the man, startling him.

"I may be somewhat used to seeing bad omens by now, but that... Well, let's just say it's badder than most," he replied absently, before turning and shouting, "we're doomed! I mean, don't panic! Sorry, who are you? Have we met?"

Zelda shook her head, wide-eyed, as Link stifled a giggle.

"Well, doesn't matter who you are, really. I was getting tired of talking to myself, so you've come at a good time. By the by, those strange things that popped out of the ground... Did you see them?" At Zelda's blank look, he elaborated. "I'm not talking about mushrooms here! I'm talking about those towers! They seem to have popped up all over the place! And that's not the only strange thing that's happened. Those long-deserted shrines suddenly started glowing! You know what this means, don't you? The end is here!" He shrieked this last with a manic gleam in his eye, making both girls jump.

"We, um, we'll keep that in mind," Link said, dragging Zelda away.

"That was... concerning," Zelda said once they were out of earshot.

"What, don't tell me you believe him?" Link asked, incredulous.

"What? No, of course not," Zelda scoffed. "But if his reaction is typical, I despair of finding much in the way of preserved knowledge."

"Let's hope it's not typical, then," Link replied, "or we'll _really_ have our work cut out for us."


+++++


They passed another bokoblin camp, giving it a wide berth, before coming across a fallen tree trunk of truly impressive girth -- Zelda measured 16 paces across. It was hollow all the way through, and made for a surprisingly serviceable ramp up the hillside. At the top, on the remains of the over-sized tree stump, they stopped for lunch and to plan their next moves, now that they were past the bend in the river.

"Looks like we'll have to cross the river to reach the next tower," Link commented. "It looks rocky, and sort of shallow. We might be able to wade across there."

"We could," Zelda mused. "_Or!_ We could hike up that hill behind us and glide over!"

Link grinned, knowing exactly which option Zelda preferred. And how could she disagree, when Zelda's eyes sparkled like that? Besides, gliding was too much fun to pass up a chance like this.


+++++


The Dueling Peaks Tower, as the slate named it, not only added a new regional map, but something called a Sheikah Sensor, which made the slate vibrate based on proximity to shrines. It began vibrating almost immediately, and as they glided up the Squabble River between the Dueling Peaks, they found the Ree Dahee shrine.

"At least back-tracking is easy enough," Zelda commented, once its travel gate was registered. "Let's press on, though. I'd rather not camp for the night in this canyon."

Link agreed. "Far too many monsters around." She'd spotted another bokoblin camp on the near side of the river, so when they continued on, they made sure to land on the far side. There was still a sentry to contend with at the footbridge at the end of the canyon, but when it was dispatched, Link found to her delight that it had been carrying shock arrows. And just beyond the footbridge was another shrine -- Ha Dahamar -- and the _strangest_ building either of them had yet seen. It looked like a yurt, at ground-level, but perched atop it was a gigantic sculpture of a horse's head, made from bits of scrap wood and metal, and draped with brightly-colored flags. The grounds surrounding the yurt were scattered with stacks of crates and sundry; seating areas; cook-fires; and various animals wandered about. Horses were stabled to one side, and a corral of goats grazed in back.

As they approached, putting off the shrine for morning, a man called to them.

"Welcome to Dueling Peaks Stable!"


+++++


They sold some of the opals they'd found on the plateau to pay for beds that night. The beds were the most comfortable either could remember ever sleeping on -- though, having proper memories dating back less than a week, all of it spent definitively "roughing it," that was a low bar. In spite of that, both girls slept fitfully, finding the distance between them unpleasant and the sounds of other people distracting.

Waking early the next morning, they had a lazy breakfast at the communal cook-fire before tackling the shrine. Another traveler, who introduced herself as Sagessa, told them about elixirs, and Zelda chattered excitedly about the possibilities and experiments she wanted to try as they continued on their way.

The road became steep after the Kakariko Bridge, winding along Lake Siela before becoming enclosed on either side by sheer cliff walls. Eventually, just after noon, they passed under a series of gates hung with blue banners bearing the Sheikah eye and a few other glyphs neither understood. They were stopped at the village gate by an old woman who'd fallen and hurt her ankle, and after they helped her up, she directed them to Impa's house, and they got their first look at a proper village.

Kakariko was beautiful.

Elegantly-constructed houses and shops wound through a hollow in the cliffs, laid out among waterfalls and rivulets, with well-maintained wooden bridges allowing foot traffic. Ropes crossed overhead, hung with paper lanterns and wooden wind-chimes that sang gently in the breeze. Trees and gardens were everywhere, willows and ginkgo and even an orchard of pink-blossomed plum trees. As they descended into the village proper, a tiny ball of energy in the shape of a child ran up to them.

"Hi, I'm Cottla! When's food? I'm bored! Wanna play?"

"Um..." Zelda stammered.

"Not right now, kiddo, sorry," Link cut in, to Zelda's relief. "We have to go see Impa first. Maybe later, okay?"

"But I'm _bored!_" Cottla whined, stamping her foot. "Ugh! Fine. See you later!" She ran off, leaving Zelda blinking in her wake.

"What just happened?"

Link could only laugh.


+++++


Impa's house, as befit the village elder, was right in the middle of the village, facing a wide gathering area, opposite a decorative pond featuring a small statue of Hylia, and framed by two waterfalls flowing into a larger pond surrounding the house. It sat perched atop a wooden platform, which was itself perched on a spit of rock jutting out into the pond. A long staircase led up to the house proper, and two Sheikah men stood guard at the gate.

"You there!" One shouted, stopping them as they approached the stairs. "Who are you!? How dare you trespass upon Lady Impa's abode-!" He cut himself off. "Is that... a Sheikah Slate? But that would mean you are... No, it's not possible. Can it be?"

"Way to let a lady get a word in edge-wise," Zelda muttered.

The second guard cleared his throat, shooting an admonishing glare at his counterpart. "Please, forgive us for behaving so rudely," he apologized. "Of course we have heard the legends from Lady Impa herself. Please, friends, go ahead and step inside." He pulled the other guard along to let them pass.

"Thank you," Zelda said primly as they ascended.


+++++


"So, you're finally awake," they were greeted as Zelda led the way inside. "It's been quite a long time, but... you still remember me, don't you?"

Link and Zelda glanced at each other, twin looks of confusion on their faces. The old woman perched on a pile of cushions, nearly hidden by the enormous hat she wore, was thoroughly unfamiliar to them both.

"What is the matter?" The old woman asked, noting the looks. "You look at me as though I am a stranger. Your eyes... they lack the light of familiarity. It is I, courageous ones. Impa. Surely you must at least remember the name Impa?"

Link shook her head, but Zelda squinted intently. "Impa..." she muttered. "That name..."

The old woman, Impa, sighed. "I see. This conversation will be more difficult than I anticipated. Paya, dear," she turned to a girl kneeling beside the cushions, whom neither Link nor Zelda had noticed before. "Would you be so kind as to bring tea?"

As the girl, Paya, stood, Zelda gasped.

"Impa!?" She exclaimed. "But-?"

Impa cackled. "My grand-daughter, Paya. The resemblance is uncanny, isn't it?"

"She looks just like you," Zelda agreed faintly.

Link looked rapidly between the three of them, utterly bewildered.

"I, um," Zelda began. "When King Rhoam -- father -- when he --"

"You spoke with the king?" Impa cut in.

"His spirit," Zelda agreed. "We awoke with no memories, and he told us little enough. The broad strokes, just barely."

Link took Zelda's hand and gave it a squeeze. She took a shuddering breath and continued. "He told us of the Calamity, and the Guardians, how it all came crashing down -- and not much else."

"He said that we fell, on the battlefield," Link added softly. "And that some Sheikah retainers brought us to the Shrine of Resurrection. Was that you, Lady Impa?"

"It was," she inclined her head. "I and my sister, Purah."

"Thank you," Link whispered.

"When my - my _father_" -- Zelda forced herself to say the word -- "revealed himself to us, I remembered... Just flashes, a few moments here and there. One in particular... He had just rebuked me for watching the scholars with the Guardians, instead of _praying_." She spat the word. "He was so cold, so _cruel..._ And on my birthday, no less!"

Link squeezed her hand again.

"I remember rushing to my room, so he wouldn't see me cry. You followed, Impa... And you, Link." She squeezed Link's hand and gave her a watery smile. "There's so much I still don't remember. But oh, Impa, I _do_ remember you!"

She rushed to Impa, threw herself to her knees, and wrapped the old woman in a crushing hug. Impa returned it, weeping.

"And you, stalwart one?" Impa asked, when they had both cried themselves out. "What of your memories?"

"Nothing yet," Link shrugged, smiling apologetically. "Instincts, yes, muscle memory, training... But nothing of people, or places, or events. I'm choosing to look at it as getting a clean slate."

Impa gave her a hard look. "And if I told you that you, and Zelda, were Hyrule's last hope against the Calamity?"

"The Calamity isn't something you can just ignore," Link retorted. "Zelda and I have lives to live, and that can't happen if Ganon wins."

Impa sighed in relief. "Such a valiant young man."

Link winced.

Zelda stood with a glower. "Link's a girl. It's the first thing she told me, after her name."

Paya chose that exact moment to enter with the tea tray.


+++++


They talked for hours, telling Impa (and Paya, whose presence Impa insisted on, refusing to let her succumb to her shyness) of their adventures since waking. Impa then told them some of what had happened since the fall of Hyrule, and what the world was like.

Finally, as dusk was drawing near, Zelda and Link left to attend to their own needs, promising to return in the morning. They stopped at Enchanted, a clothing boutique run by Laslie and Claree, two charismatic young Sheikah women, who bought most of the gemstones the two had found in their travels. The gems sold for enough that they bought entire new wardrobes, including something Claree called a "stealth suit," which supposedly muffled the noises caused by the wearer's movements, and straw hats in the traditional Sheikah style.

As they left the boutique, there was an odd reddish tinge to the sky, more than a sunset would warrant, even had it not set long since. A chill ran down their spines, as if, far in the distance, something _evil_ stirred and was aware of them.

They slept in a proper inn that night, experiencing their first proper baths in memory. Having learned from their restless night at the stable, they shared a bed, rising the next morning feeling more refreshed than they had since they first woke on the Plateau. The previous evening's odd sky slipped their minds completely.


+++++


"I've given it much thought," Impa told them over breakfast. "After what you told me occurred at the castle... Well. Ganon clearly intends to reawaken its hold on the Divine Beasts, and the Champions have relinquished their guard upon the castle in order to do what they can to prevent the Calamity from wreaking havoc in their homelands."

"Ganon must have put almost everything it had into this move," Zelda mused, "else why would all four Champions pursue?"

"It will not be easy," Impa agreed. "But yet you _must_ free the Divine Beasts! Revali, of the Rito. Daruk, of the Gorons. Mipha, of the Zora. And Urbosa, of the Gerudo. They carry on the fight in the hope that, when you return to face Ganon, you'll have a fighting chance. But to face the Calamity without the power of the Divine Beasts at your back..." She shook her head. "No, you must come to the aid of the Champions, and retake the Divine Beasts!"

"And where are these Divine Beasts?" Zelda asked.

"You'd best ask the leaders of each region," Impa replied. "Pass me your slate and I shall mark the locations where you will likely find them. Er," she amended. "_Approximate_ locations. This slate is broken."

"What?" Zelda asked. "How do you mean?"

"There are several functions missing, and inaccessible information. I believe you'd best pay a visit to the Hateno Ancient Tech Laboratory before you do anything else. You should find assistance there."

"... And where is Hateno?" Zelda asked.

Impa sighed. "You have no idea how strange it is to see you so ignorant of your own kingdom, when in our heyday we three trod nearly every mile." She retook the slate and added another pin to it.

"I'll just have to re-tread them, then," Zelda said resolutely.


+++++


After breakfast, Link and Zelda set out to find the reason why the slate had been beeping since they neared the village. At the top of a rise overlooking both the village and Telta Lake, they found a shrine, wherein Monk Ta'loh Naeg instructed them on some advanced combat techniques by way of a sparring construct. It strongly resembled the one which had nearly killed Link on Mount Hylia, though with a lighter carapace. Eventually they both demonstrated the new techniques to the monk's satisfaction, but though Link had no trouble, Zelda was left with the realization that she was relying far too much on instincts that were at best only partially-trained.

When they returned to the village, Zelda brought this up with Impa over lunch. "I can't help but feel that Link and I were far more lucky than we had any right to expect, so far. But we can't keep relying on luck, there are monsters everywhere, and no matter how good Link is I insist upon carrying my own weight. I need to learn how to fight properly."

Impa sighed. "It's not a princess' place to fight. That's what your knight is for."

Zelda snorted. "Princess of what kingdom? And who's left to say what is or isn't a princess' place but you and I?"

Impa reared back as if slapped, but laughed. "Oho! Hardly a memory to your name, yet your fire still burns bright. And there is also the example of the Champions Mipha and Urbosa to consider..." She stroked her chin as Zelda tapped her foot impatiently.

"You know I'll teach you what I can, Zelda," Link remarked.

"And just how _have_ your skills fared, Champion Link?" Impa said shrewdly.

Link smiled sadly. "I'd tell you, if I remembered. I was caught by surprise a few days ago, though, and it nearly cost my life, so I'd wager they're not what they used to be."

Impa nodded. "You were an army unto yourself, before... Before you fell..." She suddenly looked every inch of her 120-or-so years.

Link leaned over and patted her hand comfortingly. "We have a second chance. We'll just have to do better this time."

Impa pulled herself upright again. "You never stay down, do you?" She murmured. "Alright, then. Paya!"

Paya squeaked from where she was seated at the far end of the table, dropping a rice ball. "Y-yes, Grandmother?"

"I've been training Paya in the traditional Sheikah style since she was a child," Impa explained. "Paya, dear, are you up for putting Link and Zelda through their paces?"


+++++


