Chapter 5
============================

They stayed in Kakariko for a few more days, training with Paya, playing sous-chef for Koko, and gathering supplies for their journey to Hateno. They spoke with some traveling merchants to get an idea as to the condition of the road, and were advised to acquire horses -- once past the Wall, monsters were plentiful until the village and camping was dangerous. On foot, the journey would take them two days, but a horse could make the trip in one. As they would need to backtrack most of the way to the Dueling Peaks stable to reach the Hateno Road anyway, Impa advised them to stay the night there and catch some wild horses.

"Surely they'll be valuable assets for your quest," she said. "They _love_ carrots, you know! You might buy a handful or two from Trissa before you leave."

That got Zelda worrying about money, though. "Link, we only have 178 rupees, and the stable-master said it was 20 rupees per horse. And we'll need to stay at the inn for who-knows-how-long once we get to Hateno, not to mention paying Ollie" -- the innkeeper at the Shuteye Inn --  "for tonight. Will we have enough?"

"Probably not," Link said, brow creasing. "Maybe we can hunt, and sell our spoils in town?"

"You might also keep an eye out for ore deposits," Impa said sagely. "And I hear there's a dye shop in Hateno. They might buy the base materials for dyes from you."

"Ooh, maybe I can make some colored inks for my notes, too!" Zelda gushed. She'd acquired another blank notebook and a small quill-knife (useful for carving reed pens too), but Kakariko only seemed to have traditional soot-black and iron-gall inks. They'd picked up a set of clay bottles, as well, and a second cook-pot, for making elixirs, along with two large oilcloth tarps and a few coils of rope.

"Have you spoken with Pikango?" Paya suggested.

"That painter by the statue of Hylia?" Zelda asked.

"Yes, him," Paya agreed. "I, um, I would imagine a painter would know about pigments."

"That's a wonderful idea!" Zelda gushed, grabbing her notebook and a pencil and doing just that. The others just looked at each other, Link smiling fondly, Paya bemused, and Impa laughing like a loon.

"Still the same old Zelda," she said. "Always itching to learn something new."


+++++


Paya grew increasingly withdrawn as the time for Link and Zelda to leave Kakariko drew near. Finally, Impa drew her aside.

"I haven't spoken to Link and Zelda about this yet," Impa said, "but I would like you to accompany them on their quest."

Paya made a whining noise in the back of her throat, as if she were about to protest.

"Now, hear me out, Paya dear. You're getting too old to be stagnating here in the village with only us old folks for company. And yes, I know I'm exaggerating, but the point stands. You need the chance to grow, dear, and you aren't doing that here."

"B-but Grandmother..." Paya started.

"What's more," Impa continued, "The Yiga clan has been sighted more and more in recent days. I fear Link and Zelda, capable though they may be, will have need of you."

Paya shuddered, but her eyes hardened resolutely. "Alright, Grandmother. But what about you?"

Impa smiled. "I'm not so old yet that I can't do for myself," she replied. "Perhaps I'll see if Dorian will lend me Cottla on occasion. That child has too much energy and not enough structure."

Paya giggled. "She's only six, Grandmother."

"And how old were you when you started training with me?" Impa retorted.

"F-five," Paya relented.

"Now that's settled," Impa said. "Be a dear and fetch the storage trunk, would you?"


+++++


And so it was that, when Link and Zelda arrived a short while later, they found Paya waiting anxiously for them. She was dressed in Sheikah stealth garb, wearing an adventurer's harness with the traditional Sheikah armaments on her back, and a nervous smile.

"Are you going somewhere, Paya?" Zelda asked.

"I-I'm coming with you," Paya replied.

"It would ease my worries if my grand-daughter accompanied you in your journey," Impa said.

"B-but what about you?" Zelda asked.

Impa threw her head back and laughed uproariously. "That's exactly what Paya said! Don't you worry about me, I'll be fine."

"If you're certain," Zelda said.

"I'm glad," Link said, smiling softly. "I don't have many friends yet. I'd miss you, Paya."

Paya blushed furiously and hid her face in her hands, but was smiling as she did.


+++++


They set off shortly after breakfast, opting to travel to Ha Dahamar's shrine using the slate rather than walk the whole way. They stopped at the stable for Link and Zelda to change into their own stealth garb, then headed out to catch horses.

Paya managed hers first, a black-maned dappled mare she named Sanke, after the ripples the sanke carp made in the pond outside Impa's house. Sanke turned out to be quite gentle, after Paya had earned her trust with soothing words and a handful of apples.

Zelda was next, leaping on the back of a fiery red stallion with a white streak down his nose. He turned out to be rather wild, and some apples only partially soothed him. She named him Firebrand.

Link was last, finally finding one to her liking as dusk began to fall. She was a black mare with a white muzzle and socks, with a mane that glowed like moonlight on the water. She was quite skittish, but eventually came to trust Link after much soothing and plenty of apples. Link named her Firefly.

As they returned to the stable to register their new steeds, it began to rain, so they stayed the night at the stable. There were quite a few other guests that night, and they overheard some interesting conversation from a woman named Brokka, talking about how the Dueling Peaks were just _lousy_ with ore deposits, and a couple of treasure hunters named Prissen and Domidak, talking about the hidden treasure of the infamous bandit Misko. Zelda made notes about the subjects; potential sources of traveling funds were still high on her list of concerns for the moment.

In the morning, before the dew had completely faded, they set off on their new steeds down the Hateno Road. They were waylaid by bokoblins a few times, but just spurred their horses and outran them. Around mid-morning, they reached the battered walls of Fort Hateno. Destroyed Guardians littered the Blatchery Plain as far as they could see, and the ground was heavily-cratered. Link and Zelda traded shaken looks, and Paya kept shooting them nervous glances. She calmed visibly as they passed through the gate and stopped to recover.

"That was... very strange," Zelda said, still somewhat pale. "I feel as if someone has walked over my grave."

Paya startled at that. "Wh-what?"

Zelda shot her a puzzled glance. "It's just an expression."

Paya shook her head. "Yes, well - I mean - It's just that -"

Link patted her arm comfortingly. "Breathe, Paya."

She took a deep breath and held it for a moment. "It's just... The Battle of Blatchery Plain? The last stand of Fort Hateno? That's where you fell. The fort was being overrun, and none of the soldiers could make a dent in the Guardians. From what Grandmother told me, all of those destroyed husks out there were because of you two. You'd just managed to awaken your power as Link fell, but one of the Guardians got a lucky shot and you fell shortly after."

Zelda stood, shaken. "I... I need to think. I won't go far." She turned and began walking into the woods, just south of the past. True to her word, she stayed within sight, but they could see her picking fights with courser bees.

"Should we go after her?" Paya asked.

"Not right now," Link said. "I think she just needs to process a few things."

"Why didn't you react as strongly?" Paya asked?

Link shrugged. "It doesn't feel real, I suppose. Like that wasn't me on that battlefield. Maybe someday it will, but for now..." She shrugged again. "I don't think I'm ready to remember that night, to be honest." She sighed, looking back out the gate at the shattered battlefield. "I'm definitely not the person who could do all that. If I have to become that person again, to keep Zelda safe, to keep you and Impa and Koko and Cottla and everyone safe, then I will. But right now, I don't know if I have it in me to fight like that."

"It's like you said before," Paya said softly. "You have a second chance, and it's up to you what you make of it. So maybe you don't become that person this time around. I'm sure you'll become just as amazing, in whatever way you choose. You and Zelda both."

Zelda rejoined them, carrying three beehives, which she emptied into one of their clay bottles. "I didn't even get stung!" She grinned. It didn't reach her eyes.


+++++


They continued onward, riding quickly past a bokoblin encampment across the Fir River, under the Cliffs of Quince. They grew wary then; some of the traveling merchants they'd spoken to in Kakariko had said that bokoblins liked to jump out at travelers along this stretch of the road. When the first bokoblin jumped out, just past the Firly bridge, they spurred their horses into a gallop, riding hell-for-leather all the way to Hateno. Even so, they rode into town just as the sun was setting.

A farmer, brandishing a pitchfork, met them at the village gate. "Who are you!? Be on you way, you... suspicious girls!"

Link cocked an eyebrow as Zelda replied. "Suspicious! What on Din's green earth could you suspect us of?"

The farmer winced. "Erm... Well... I reckon you don't _look_ like monsters..."

Zelda face-palmed. "We're clearly travelers. Now, if you don't mind, it's getting dark, and it's just started to rain _again._ Would you be so kind as to direct us to the inn?"

The farmer stepped aside sheepishly. "Jest follow the road 'til you see the sign. Can't miss it."


+++++


The Great Ton Pu Inn was warm and spacious. They'd spotted a shrine tucked away behind the general store on their way in, but decided to put it off until tomorrow when the rain, hopefully, stopped.

But when they woke the next morning, it hadn't.

"Well, needs must," Zelda said, leading the way to the shops. "First order of business: see if they stock proper traveling cloaks. Rain has been far too much of a problem for us thus far, wouldn't you agree, Link?"

Link nodded as they entered the Ventest Clothing Boutique, where they did indeed sell hooded cloaks, along with quite a bit of other clothing, and -- 

"Ooh, they have plate mail!" Link said. "That's unexpected."

"It's definitely quite the find," Zelda said, making a note of it. "We'll need to come back when we can afford it. I'm sure it will be a great help in our journey. Let's just get the hoods and some more shirts for now."

They sold some of the gemstones they'd found in their travels, along with some of the elixirs Zelda had practiced brewing back in Kakariko. Paya found a kindred spirit in Sophie, the shy proprietor, and spoke softly with her while Link and Zelda browsed.

When the rain let up a short time later, Paya told them that Sophie had mentioned that the Ancient Tech Lab was perched atop the hill at the edge of town. Taking advantage of the break in the weather, they made their way up the winding path, stopping to activate the travel gate at the shrine they'd spotted the night before.

Now that the rain had cleared some, they got their first proper look at Hateno as they went. It was a cozy sort of village; more of a town, really. It was larger than Kakariko, with fields and animals grazing in the farms scattered along the village's length. For all that it was somewhat sprawling, the town was quite neat, with residents cheerfully sweeping their stoops as they passed. Many waved in greeting.

In contrast, the Ancient Tech Lab, when they arrived, was one of the most outlandish buildings any of them had ever laid eyes on, including the stables with their over-sized horse-head sculptures. The building had been a lighthouse at some point, and the tower still had the winding stairway circling it to the top. Instead of a lantern, though, the remains of a guardian were perched atop the tower, and an enormous telescope gazed out over the village from a makeshift scaffolding, to the Dueling Peaks far in the distance. And there was a strange sort of kiln out front, next to a deactivated travel gate missing its pedestal. A Sheikah toad statue perched atop the door, wearing glasses and with an umbrella tied to its side. A sign by the door said:

> - Hateno Ancient Tech Lab -
> If the flame is blue, the furnace is hot!
> DO NOT TOUCH!

"What have we gotten ourselves into this time?" Zelda asked wryly. 

Link stifled a giggle.

The rain started up again just as they arrived, so they pushed open the doors and stopped in shock. The inside was in utter disarray. Books and papers were strewn everywhere, and various pieces of equipment littered the floor, walls, and even the ceiling. A pedestal and obelisk stood in one corner, looking as if they'd been transplanted from their original location. A Sheikah man stood in the back of the room, perusing a bookcase, and a small Sheikah child stood atop a stool at the large table in the middle, peering at schematics.